Next up we have a big one.
Not necessarily difficult but just a really commonly used part of JavaScript and strings in particular
something called template laterals string template laterals.
Essentially these are special strings where we can add in information expressions other variables data
inside the string and spit out one string by the end.
So here's a simple example.
Don't worry about the syntax just yet but I have a string I counted and then some weird characters.
Three plus four sheep and it's turned into I counted seven sheep.
So the first thing you need to know about template liberals in general is we use back tick characters
around the string.
It's hard to tell but those are not single quotation marks right here.
This and this.
Those are both back tick characters which are usually located above the tab key.
On a typical keyboard that I've used at least it is where the till the key is a little squiggly line.
The Enya saboteurs called in Spanish.
I might just be completely making it up but it's above the tab key so we can make a string with tactics
just like that and it gives us a resulting string.
So this is another way that you could escape characters or escape quotation marks if you want to do
he said Well I don't have to worry about single or double quotes because I'm not using either one I'm
using tactics around the strings so I could put double and single quotes in there no problem for example
that's a valid string if I use back ticks but the real meat of these expressions of template laterals
is that we can embed information.
And the trick the secret is this set of characters right here.
Dollar sign and then curly braces.
So on its own that will break javascript.
It doesn't like you but if you put that inside of back take characters dollar sign.
Curly braces.
This is going to evaluate to something.
So whatever is in here like one plus five will be run first.
This will be turned into a string.
Once it is finished and then we end up with one string like this string six usually we don't just have
a string like this.
Usually we have other information or characters in there.
You owe me.
And then we could have dollar sign the curly braces.
One hundred plus that many you owe me.
Twenty two hundred nineteen thousand thirty seven.
So this is a secret once again back ticks curly braces with a dollar sign in front.
This will not work in a regular string.
So if I tried it one plus three I end up with the string dollar sign curve the braces one plus three.
Not ideal if we use back ticks.
This is kind of like an escape character it gets out of the context of the string and JavaScript treats
it as such and it evaluates it.
In this case as a math expression as an addition but we can do anything in there.
Well almost anything you don't want to write super super long pieces of code.
But here's a really common example if you have a variable and you want to spit out that variable as
part of a string like Welcome Back.
Ziggy 31 we can do it like this.
So I'll show you another example let's say we have two variables animal and sound so animal will be
pig and sound will be I think I can create a template literal that follows this pattern.
Animal says sound so pig says oink or pig say oink or something like that.
If I wanted to do that I would need to add in the variable animal first instead of those back ticks.
And then a lot of space.
So we have a space after the string.
You can see my result down here already and then I'll add in just the word says pig says and then another
dollar sign.
Curly braces sound pig says oink.
Now string template laterals are new ish in JavaScript a couple of years ago they weren't an option
we had to resort to can cat needing strings together which really sucked it would look like this animal
plus space says space plus sound.
So we always had to break up our quotes and if we wanted to add something afterwards like an exclamation
point I would then do sound plus quote exclamation point.
Pig Says oink.
But if I go back to my string template literal with the up arrow I can just add an exclamation point
right there.
So it's really easy to read it's easy to write.
You don't have to worry about opening and closing your quotes and plus signs you just use those dollars
and curly braces and what you're doing here is something called interpolated.
You are interpreting data inside of a string.
So we have a regular string like something and then we interpolate sound which is a variable.
And as the examples show you can also do more than just put a variable in there as is you can run some
simple code again you don't want to put super long stuff in here but there's nothing stopping you from
it.
We could do a user named out to uppercase or I could do animal let's just recall this line again right
here and you sound dot to uppercase like that and we get pig says oy.
Now here's another example.
This one's a little more complex.
I have three variables.
I have an item which is cucumbers price which is one ninety nine and a quantity which is four.
And I wanted to print out a string that says you bought four cucumbers if that's what quantity is the
total price is seven dollars and ninety six cents.
Using a template literal it's really easy.
The one thing I'll point out is that I have two dollar signs here because the first one or the second
one rather is used to interpolate price times quantity that will go away leaving a number.
And then the original dollar sign up front will be left as an actual dollar sign in the string.
So here's one more example let's say that we were opening up a bar in the U.S. or something where you
have to be 21 years old to enter and I want to print out a string using these variables so we have men
age and your age.
And I wanted to follow the pattern of you must be 21 to enter your currently 19 please come back in
two years or whatever the correct age range is.
So I could do something like this that ticks you must be.
And then dollar sign.
Men age to enter and then we'll just do come back in and then another dollar sign curly braces will
take men age and subtract your age from it and then add the word years afterwards.
So you must be 21 and let's do 21 or older to enter come back in two years and I know this seems like
a lot of work for something stupid not that exciting to do with age and men age or animals and noises
pigs and thinking.
But once we get to more complex things think about it this way if we were making a Reddit application
where we had or let's just say comments on a blog every comment follows the same pattern where we probably
have something like posted x minutes ago by and then user so we would have potentially a template literally
like this posted x minutes ago and then X instead of calling it X we would go with minutes or elapsed
time or something by user and we would do this for every single comment that we were trying to display
so we would have a list of them maybe 100 comments.
And for each one we would put them through this template and we haven't seen how to do that yet.
We haven't talked about looping or collections of data but that is when these become especially useful
is when you're defining it an actual template you're reusing.
So these are kind of silly examples I know but I promise they become really really useful later on.
So a template laterals the main takeaways again back ticks.
Not single quotes and we use dollar sign.
Curly braces inside.
In order to write expressions which are just treated as regular javascript it's treated as if you were
not inside a string at all and then whatever that evaluates to is turned into a string and put inside
the resulting string.